Close #202 (#219)
Benjamin-Lee/deep-rules: content/09.overfitting.md

While a slight drop in performance from the training set to the test set is normal, a significant drop is a clear sign of overfitting (see Figure @fig:overfitting-fig for a visual demonstration of an overfit model that performs poorly on test data).
In addition, there are a variety of techniques to reduce overfitting during training including data augmentation and regularization techniques such as dropout [@url:http://jmlr.csail.mit.edu/papers/v15/srivastava14a.html] and weight decay [@tag:krogh-weight-decay].
Another way, as described by Chuang and Keiser, is to identify the baseline level of memorization of the network by training on the data with the labels randomly shuffled and to see if the model performs better on the actual data [@doi:10.1021/acschembio.8b00881].
If the model performs no better on real data than randomly scrambled data, then the performance of the model can be attributed to overfitting.

Additionally, in biology and medicine it is critical to consider independence when defining training and test sets.

> For example, a DL model for pneumonia detection in chest X-rays performed well but failed to generalize to outside hospitals because they were able to detect which hospital the image was from and adjust accordingly [@doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.1002683].

Reviewer: >  and adjust accordingly 

I am not quite sure what the "adjust accordingly" means in this context. Does it mean that the researchers adjusted the model, or did the model adjust something (I presume the prediction)? 

> For example, a DL model for pneumonia detection in chest X-rays performed well but failed to generalize to images collected at outside hospitals because they were able to detect which hospital the image was from **and exploited this information when making predictions.**

Similarly, when dealing with sequence data, holding out data that are evolutionarily related or share structural homology to the training data can result in overfitting.
In these cases, simply holding out test data selected from a random partition of the training data is insufficient.
The best remedy for confounding variables is to [know your data](#know-your-problem) and to test your model on truly independent data.

> In essence, practitioners should split data into training, tuning, and single-use testing sets to assess the performance of the model on data that fully assesses generalization (_e.g._ by holding out all data from one hospital as a test set).

Reviewer: > that fully assesses generalization

The (statistical) definition of generalization performance is based on the whole population, and we are still only approximating or estimating it. I suggest a slight rewording

> In essence, practitioners should split data into training, tuning, and single-use testing sets to assess the performance of the model on data that can provide a reliable estimate of its generalization performance

Another way, as described by Chuang and Keiser, is to identify the baseline level of memorization of the network by training on the data with the labels randomly shuffled and to see if the model performs better on the actual data [@doi:10.1021/acschembio.8b00881].
If the model performs no better on real data than randomly scrambled data, then the performance of the model can be attributed to overfitting.

> Additionally, one must be sure that their dataset is not skewed or biased, such as by having confounding and scientifically irrelevant variables that the model can pick up on.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to say _independent_ and identically distributed? It may be helpful to include the slightly more technical terminology here as it would connect to the broader literature on the topic.

Author: For ensuring generalization, is identical distribution a hard requirement? In the hospital example, independent hospitals had different rates of pneumonia which should not have affected the model if it were truly learning the signature of pneumonia rather than the relative frequencies.

Reviewer 2: I definitely think independent is the bigger issue here. Identically distributed is helpful for performance but if your test set is not identically distributed in the same way that other generalization sets are not, I guess you should still get an accurate performance estimate.

Author: Ok this is fixed as:

> Additionally, in biology and medicine it is critical to consider independence when defining training and test sets.

> Additionally, one must be sure that their dataset is not skewed or biased, such as by having confounding and scientifically irrelevant variables that the model can pick up on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, in biology and medicine it is critical to consider independence when defining training and test sets.
```

For example, a DL model for pneumonia detection in chest X-rays performed well but failed to generalize to outside hospitals because they were able to detect which hospital the image was from and adjust accordingly [@doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.1002683].
Similarly, when dealing with sequence data, holding out data that are evolutionarily related or share structural homology to the training data can result in overfitting.

> In these cases, simply holding out test data is insufficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In these cases, simply holding out test data selected from a random partition of the training data is insufficient.
```

The best remedy for confounding variables is to [know your data](#know-your-problem) and to test your model on truly independent data.

> In essence, split your data into training, tuning, and single-use testing sets to assess the performance of the model on data it truly has not seen before.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In essence, practitioners should split data into training, tuning, and single-use testing sets to assess the performance of the model on data that fully assesses generalization (i.e., by holding out all data from one hospital as a test set).
```

Author: ```suggestion
In essence, practitioners should split data into training, tuning, and single-use testing sets to assess the performance of the model on data that fully assesses generalization (_e.g._ by holding out all data from one hospital as a test set).
```

Author: Two questions:

1. Should this be an e.g. rather than an i.e.?
2. Does it make sense to specifically refer to an example in the closing line? We haven't done so before but I don't see a strong reason not to.
